feat(blogpost): What is a k8s cluster at Bedrock (#259)
M6Web/m6web.github.io: _posts/2020-12-08-Three-years-running-kubernetes-on-production-at-Bedrock.md

  feature: posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/ihor-dvoretskyi-UGKfiS5CcZI-unsplash.jpg
  credit: Ihor Dvoretskyi
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/photos/UGKfiS5CcZI
comments: true
language: en
---

We migrated our first application to a Kubernetes cluster at AWS in 2018.
Three years later, we manage a dozen clusters, to which we have added a lot of tools and we have a much better grasp of certain subtleties.
Each cluster reaches, depending on the load, hundreds of nodes and thousands of pods.

## Table of Content

* Base
    * Kops and templates
    * Tools we use
    * Keep tools up to date on all clusters
* Resiliency
    * DNS
    * Lot of ASGs
    * edicated ASGs by app
    * QOS Guaranteed Daemonsets
* Scalability
    * Cluster Autoscaler
        *  Expander Priority
    * Overprovisioning
    * PriorityClass
    * Low HPA targets
    * Long downscale durations
* Observability
    * Metrics
    * Logs
    * Alerting
* Costs
    * Spot instances
        * Inter accounts reclaims
        * Ondemand fallback
        * Draino and node-problem-detector
        * Spot Tips
    * Kube-downscaler
    * HAProxy Ingress Controller

## Base

### Kops and templates

> EKS didn’t exist when we started to work on Kubernetes on AWS. So we chose to use Kops which, by the way, works very well.

Reviewer: maybe add links to kops and eks web sites ?

Author: Indeed, I added it \o/

Reviewer 2: At least github repositories

### Dedicated ASGs by app

We started to dedicate ASGs for some applications when Prometheus was eating all the memory of a node, ending up in OOM errors. Because Prometheus replays its WAL at startup and consumes a lot of memory doing so, adding a Limit over the memory was of no use. It was OOMKill during the WAL process, restarted, OOMKilled again, etc. . Therefore, we isolated Prometheus on on-demand nodes having a lot of memory so it could use up all of it.

Then, one of our main API experienced a huge load, 60% IDLE CPU to 0%, in a few seconds. Because of the violence of such a peak, active pods started to consume all CPU available on nodes, depriving other pods. Getting rid of CPU Limits is [a recommendation](https://erickhun.com/posts/kubernetes-faster-services-no-cpu-limits/) that comes with drawbacks that we measured and chose to ensure performance. As a result, the entire cluster went down, lacking for available CPU.
We tried to isolate this API on its own nodes, as such peaks can repeat in the future, because it’s uncacheable and userfacing. We added Taint on dedicated nodes and Tolerations on the selected API.

> Since that, we had to deploy a dedicated overprovisioning on those nodes as the overprovisioning pods didn’t have this toleration. It turned out we’re also able to adapt the overprovisioning specifically for this API, which wasn’t the base idea, but it has proven to be very effective due to the API’s nature. We talk more about overprovisioning's conf a little later on.

Reviewer: toleration => capability ?

Author: Toleration is a specific attribute over a Kubernetes Deployment object.
I'm adding code quotes so it would be more obvious => `toleration`

EC2s are sometimes _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, especially Spot instances. With the autoscaler recommendation to split ASGs by the same amount of CPU/RAM, there were just too many ASGs to try before falling back on-demand. We’ve reduced the cluster-autoscaler fallback timeout to 5mns and still are facing many scaling problems at Paris, where we lack Spot instances.

![InsufficientInstanceCapacity](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-10-22-13-33-22.png)

Expander priority is the more resilient way we chose to have automatic fallback from Spot to on-demand when there’s no Spot left.
We have already faced, multiple times, a fallback to on-demand instances, even with a dozen different instance types. _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ errors are not a myth. Even on-demand instances can be in _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, which we may never face with expander priority, 10+ Spot instance types, 10+ on-demand instance types and low _--max-node-provision-time_.

### Overprovisioning
We have overprovisioning pods inside the cluster.

> The objective is to trigger a node scale-up before a legitimate pod actually needs resources. Doing so, the pod doesn’t wait minutes to be scheduled, but a few seconds.

Reviewer: maybe also related to our business and that sometimes tv audience drive to us a lot of viewer very quickly ?

Author: Yep, you're right, I just added it thanks

We follow the efficiency of this overprovisioning with these Prometheus expressions:

* `kube_deployment_status_replicas_unavailable`: we know which pods are waiting to be scheduled,
* `sum(kube_node_status_condition{condition="Ready",status="false"})`: we know if there are UnReady nodes, like when nodes are scaling-up and new nodes don’t have their daemonsets Ready.

Because we have some nice pikes on our applications, we are using the ladder mode of the overprovisioning. That ensures that we always have a minimum amount of overprovisioning running in the cluster, so we’re able to handle huge loads at any time. Also, we ensure that we don’t waste too much resources when heavily loaded, so we don’t reserve 200 nodes in a cluster of 1000 nodes for example.

The configmap looks like:

```yaml
data:
  ladder: '{"coresToReplicas":[[16,4],[100,10],[200,20]]}'
```

We chose to have big overprovisioning pods, bigger than any other pod in the cluster, to ensure that expelling one of the overprovisioning pods is enough to schedule any Pending pod.

## PriorityClass

> We sacrifice some applications when it's crap.

Reviewer: it's crap ? 
=> when facing a wall of traffic 
=> when the cluster suffocate ;)

Author: it can be both :shrug: 
I would like to express by "it's crap" that sometimes, shit happens and the time to find out what, we have this mechanism of priorities.

Reviewer 3: > when every other measure (overprovisionning, on-demand fallback) fails

Reviewer 4: I'm +1 on "it's crap" is not quite descriptive enough

Our rolling-updates and rolling-upgrades are 100% handled by kops which never failed us.

Because we have several clusters, we chose to use `kops toolbox template` feature instead of having a single YAML file per cluster. That allows us to have mutualized resources definitions, like AutoScalingGroups, DNS options or namespaces list, inside common files and a dedicated template file per cluster, referencing mutualized configs through variables.

For example, the EC2 instance types will be defined as snippets:

± cat snippets/spot_4x_32Gb_machine_type.yaml:
- c5.4xlarge
- c5d.4xlarge
- c5n.4xlarge

And used inside a generic template file:
± cat templates/3_spot-nodes.yaml.tpl
…
  mixedInstancesPolicy:
    instances:
    {{ if eq $index "4x_32Gb" }}
    {{ include "spot_4x_32Gb_machine_type.yaml" . | indent 4 }}
    {{ end }}
…

Finally, if the cluster requires an ASG with instances size 4x with 32GB RAM on Spot instances:
± cat vars/prod-customer.k8s.foo.bar.yaml
…
spot_nodes:
  4x_32Gb:
    az:
      - eu-west-3a
      - eu-west-3b
      - eu-west-3c
    min: 1
    max: 100

> A bash script makes the glue between all this, generating manifests files, creating/updating clusters and checking everything is operating normally.

Author: :+1:

We never make any Infrastructure modification outside of code.

### Tools we use

We add some tools to a raw Kubernetes cluster:

* aws-authenticator
* cluster-autoscaler
* cloudwatch-exporter-in-cluster
* cni-metrics-helper
* draino
* fluentd
* haproxy-ingress-controller
* iam-role-for-serviceaccount
* k8s-spot-termination-handler
* kube-downscaler
* logstash
* loki
* metrics-server
* node-problem-detector
* overprovisioning
* prometheus
* prometheus-dnsmasq-exporter
* prometheus-pushgateway
* statsd-exporter
* statsd-proxy
* victoria-metrics-cluster

Some of those tools stand for compatibility reasons after our cloud migration, so our developers can still use our ELK stack, or a statsd format to generate metrics.

We need all these tools to have a production-ready cluster, so we can provide scaling, resilience, observability, security with controlled costs. This list isn't even exhaustive.

It evolved a lot over the last 2 years and will surely evolve a lot in the near future, as both Kubernetes and AWS are moving playgrounds.

### Keep tools up to date on all clusters

We use a Jenkins job for that.

> We deploy k8s-tools the same way we deploy our apis in the cluster: with bash scripts and a helm chart, dedicated per application.

Author: Agreed, lil to much :smile:

± tree app/loki/.cloud/       
app/loki/.cloud/
├── charts
│   ├── Chart.yaml
│   ├── templates/
│   ├── values.customerX.yaml
│   └── values.customerY.yaml
└── jenkins
    ├── builder.sh
    └── deployer.sh

A Jenkins job runs the builder.sh, then the deployer.sh script for every k8s-tool.
Builder.sh is run when we need to build our own Docker images.
Deployer.sh handles the Helm Chart deployment subtleties.
All apps are first deployed on all our staging clusters, then on prod.

Consistency is maintained over all our clusters through this Jenkins job.

## Resiliency

### DNS

> Like everyone who’s using Kubernetes on production, at some point, we faced an outage due to DNS. It was either [UDP failing because of a kernel race condition](https://www.weave.works/blog/racy-conntrack-and-dns-lookup-timeouts), or [musl (Alpine Linux’s replacement of glibc) not correctly handling domain or search](https://github.com/gliderlabs/docker-alpine/blob/master/docs/caveats.md#dns), or also the default ndots 5 dnsConfig, or even KubeDNS not handling peak loads properly.

Author: I've added it below, like:
```
- We use CoreDNS with autoscaling
+ We use CoreDNS with autoscaling as a replacement for KubeDNS
```

As of today:

* We are using a local DNS cache on each worker node, with dnsmasq,
* We use Fully Qualified Domain Names as much as possible,

> * We’ve defined dnsConfig preferences for all our applications,

Author: :+1: added ;)

* We use CoreDNS with autoscaling,
* We forbid as much as possible musl/Alpine

Example of a dns configuration in prod:

```yml
  dnsConfig:
    options:
    - name: use-vc
    - name: single-request
    - name: single-request-reopen
    - name: ndots
      value: "1"
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
```

`dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst` makes sure we’re using the node’s loop interface, so pods will send their DNS requests to dnsmasq installed locally on each node.

> Dnsmasq forwards DNS queries to CoreDNS for certain domains and to the VPC’s DNS server for the rest.

Author: indeed, which includes `$service.$namespace.cluster.local` services, but I don't think it's worth mentioning it here, WYT ?

> Dnsmasq forwards DNS queries to CoreDNS for certain domains and to the VPC’s DNS server for the rest.

Reviewer 4: "certain domains" is vague. I think saying which ones would make things less vague and better (and the level of english in my sentence is… bad :-D )

> Dnsmasq forwards DNS queries to CoreDNS for certain domains and to the VPC’s DNS server for the rest.

Author: Fixed, changed to: 
Dnsmasq forwards DNS queries to CoreDNS for `cluster.local.` sub-domains and to the VPC’s DNS server for the rest.

> ### Lots of ASGs

Author: There are 200 acronyms used :disappointed: 
Easy solution: I assume that the article is intended for sysadmins who are already familiar with these acronyms.

We had a dozen ASGs per cluster.
This is both for resiliency and because we use Spot instances.
With spot instance reclaims, we needed to have a lot of instance types and family types: m5.4xlarge, c5.4xlarge, m5n.8xlarge, etc.
This is an autoscaler recommendation to split ASGs so that [each ASG has the same amount of RAM and number of CPU cores](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/master/cluster-autoscaler/cloudprovider/aws/README.md#using-mixed-instances-policies-and-spot-instances) when using mixed instances policies.
As a result, we had ASGs like:

* spot_4x_32Gb
* spot_4x_64Gb
* spot_4x_128Gb

**Lots of ASGs doesn’t work well**
AZ rebalancing doesn’t work anymore when using more than one ASG. It becomes totally unpredictable and uncontrollable. It is even a total nightmare with a dozen ASGs.

You can see the difference of outgoing traffic between our 3 NAT Gateway over 4 hours time range :
![difference of outgoing traffic between our 3 NAT Gateway](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-11-17-16-07-11.png)

> The blue NAT gateway is way more used than the two others between 19h00 and 22h00. The green NAT gateway is used half as much as the other two during peak usage times.

Author: Added both suggestions, thanks :+1:

> Kubernetes’s **cluster-autoscaler** isn’t really compatible with many ASGs. We’ll cover how it works later in this post (Scalability/ExpanderPriority), but keep in mind that you shouldn’t have more than 4 ASGs per application group. This is due to the failover mechanism of cluster-autoscaler that doesn’t detect ASGs errors like _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_.

Author: Indeed, it's not clear.
I rewrote it to `each application should run on no more than a maximum of 4 ASGs`
Also added precision on _why_ it's a nogo for us : scale-up time increase

We’ve rolled-back on the ASG number. We now have a maximum of 4 ASGs per application group (see next section: Resiliency/DedicatedASGs), with 2 being Spot and 2 on-demand fallbacks.

### Dedicated ASGs by app

We started to dedicate ASGs for some applications when Prometheus was eating all the memory of a node, ending up in OOM errors. Because Prometheus replays its WAL at startup and consumes a lot of memory doing so, adding a Limit over the memory was of no use. It was OOMKill during the WAL process, restarted, OOMKilled again, etc. . Therefore, we isolated Prometheus on on-demand nodes having a lot of memory so it could use up all of it.

> Then, one of our main API experienced a huge load, 60% IDLE CPU to 0%, in a few seconds. Because of the violence of such a peak, active pods started to consume all CPU available on nodes, depriving other pods. Getting rid of CPU Limits is [a recommendation](https://erickhun.com/posts/kubernetes-faster-services-no-cpu-limits/) that comes with drawbacks that we measured and chose to ensure performance. As a result, the entire cluster went down, lacking for available CPU.

Author: :+1:  added

> Then, one of our main API experienced a huge load, 60% IDLE CPU to 0%, in a few seconds. Because of the violence of such a peak, active pods started to consume all CPU available on nodes, depriving other pods. Getting rid of CPU Limits is [a recommendation](https://erickhun.com/posts/kubernetes-faster-services-no-cpu-limits/) that comes with drawbacks that we measured and chose to ensure performance. As a result, the entire cluster went down, lacking for available CPU.

Author: That's the original word we chose to change to `lacking` is it felt more relevant in the situation

We tried to isolate this API on its own nodes, as such peaks can repeat in the future, because it’s uncacheable and userfacing. We added Taint on dedicated nodes and Tolerations on the selected API.

> Since that, we had to deploy a dedicated overprovisioning on those nodes as the overprovisioning pods didn’t have this `toleration`. It turned out we’re also able to adapt the overprovisioning specifically for this API, which wasn’t the base idea, but it has proven to be very effective due to the API’s nature. We talk more about overprovisioning's conf a little later on (Scalability/Overprovisioning).

Author: That's interesting but not the point of this imho: the idea is to explain how we adopt solutions to this kind of events, which happens. Optimizing CPU consumption and so, circumvent, in part, the problem doesn't seem relevant to this idea.
WYT ?

> Since that, we had to deploy a dedicated overprovisioning on those nodes as the overprovisioning pods didn’t have this `toleration`. It turned out we’re also able to adapt the overprovisioning specifically for this API, which wasn’t the base idea, but it has proven to be very effective due to the API’s nature. We talk more about overprovisioning's conf a little later on (Scalability/Overprovisioning).

Author: @Meroje 's suggestion added though

```yaml
    - labels:
        severity: notice
        cluster_name: "{{ $externalLabels.cluster_name }}"
      annotations:
        alertmessage: '{{ $labels.namespace }}/{{ $labels.pod }}/{{ $labels.container
            }} : {{ printf "%0.0f" $value }}%'
        description: Container using more CPU than expected.
          It will soon be throttled, which has a negative impact on performances.
        summary: "{{ $externalLabels.cluster_name }} - Notice - K8S - Container using 90% CPU Limit"
      alert: Notice - K8S - Container getting close to its CPU Limit
      expr: |
        (
          sum(rate(container_cpu_usage_seconds_total{job="kubelet", container!="POD", container!=""}[1m])) by (container, namespace, pod)
        / sum(kube_pod_container_resource_limits_cpu_cores{job="kube-state-metrics", container!="POD", container!=""}) by (container, namespace, pod)
        ) * 100 > 90
```

We don’t currently have alerting on Throttling, only a Grafana graph using the metric:
{% highlight prometheus %}
sum by (pod) (rate(container_cpu_cfs_throttled_seconds_total{job="kubelet", image!="",container!="POD"}[1m]))
{% endhighlight %}

> At the same time, we chose to isolate Prometheus on its own ASGs, as we later did for Victoria Metrics and Grafana Loki.

Author: Absolutely, I changed it to `After Prometheus, we later isolated Victoria Metrics and Grafana Loki on their own ASGs.`
:+1:

We’re also isolating “admin” tools, like CoreDNS, cluster-autoscaler, HAProxy Ingress Controller, on dedicated “admin nodes” group. That way, admin tools can’t mess with developers pods and vice versa.

![Nodes separations on groups](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/dedicated_admin_nodes.png)
Our developers can only deploy on Worker nodes. An application’s pods can only be scheduled on 4 ASGs, including 2 on-demand backups.

Those admin nodes are on-demand. Having an ASG of few nodes all Spot is a risk we didn’t want to take regarding the criticality of those pods.

### QOS Guaranteed Daemonsets

> All our Daemonsets have Requests and Limits at the same value.

Author: :+1:

We’ve found out that a lot of Daemonsets don’t define those values by default.
Enforcing QOS Guaranteed Daemonsets:

* ensures our daemonsets are Requesting all the resources they need, which is also important for the k8s scheduler to be more effective,
* daemonsets bad behaviours can be contained through Limits, and will not mess up with pods,
* it’s a good indicator of the overhead we add on each node and helps us choose our EC2 instance types better (E.g: 2x.large instances are too small),
* it’s a reminder that a server with 16 CPUs has in fact only 80% of them usable by developer pods.

## Scalability

### Cluster Autoscaler

> We automatically scale our EC2 Instances, our nodes, with cluster-autoscaler.

Author: Yep, removed the enumeration which isn't one but a double one
-> `We automatically scale our EC2 Instances with cluster-autoscaler.`

![Autoscaling nodes](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/overprovisioning-total-node-count.png)

As mentioned before, we have several ASGs per Cluster.
We use the service discovery feature of cluster-autoscaler to find all ASGs to work with and to control them automatically.
This is done in two steps:

1. We add 2 tags on ASGs that the cluster-autoscaler should manage
    a. k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled: "true"

>     b. k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/{{ $cluster.name }}: "true"

Reviewer 4: format as code?

Author: :+1:

2. Then, inside the Chart, we add those two labels to the node-group-auto-discovery parameter:

```yaml
        command:
        - ./cluster-autoscaler
        - --cloud-provider=aws
        - --node-group-auto-discovery=asg:tag=k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled,k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/{{ index .Values.nodes .Values.env "clusterName" }}
        …
```

#### Expander Priority

> We’re using cluster-autoscaler with the _expander: priority_.

Reviewer 4: "we use" (general truth and not "right now we're using") ?

> We’re using cluster-autoscaler with the _expander: priority_.

Reviewer 4: "we use" (general truth and not "right now we're using") ?

ASGs will be chosen as:

* `spot-nodes-.*`
* `on-demand-.*`

> Cluster-autoscaler will randomly add an EC2 instance in an ASG in the first group: _spot-nodes-*_. If a new instance hasn’t joined the cluster after the fallback timeout (`--max-node-provision-time`), it will try another ASG in the same group. He will try all the ASGs in this group before moving on to the next group: _on-demand-*_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Cluster-autoscaler will randomly add an EC2 instance in an ASG in the first group: _spot-nodes-*_. If a new instance hasn’t joined the cluster after the fallback timeout (`--max-node-provision-time`), it will try another ASG in the same group. It will try all the ASGs in this group before moving on to the next group: _on-demand-*_.
```

Author: :+1:

> With a dozen ASGs, most of them being Spot, we’ve already waited for 45mns to be actually able to successfully add an EC2 instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With a dozen ASGs, most of them being Spot, we’ve already waited for 45 minutes to actually be able to successfully add an EC2 instance.
```

> EC2s are sometimes _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, especially Spot instances. With the autoscaler recommendation to split ASGs by the same amount of CPU/RAM, there were just too many ASGs to try before falling back on-demand. We’ve reduced the cluster-autoscaler fallback timeout to 5mns and still are facing many scaling problems at Paris, where we lack Spot instances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
EC2s are sometimes _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, especially Spot instances. With the autoscaler recommendation to split ASGs by the same amount of CPU/RAM, there were just too many ASGs to try before falling back on-demand. We’ve reduced the cluster-autoscaler fallback timeout to 5 minutes and still are facing many scaling problems in the Paris region, where AWS lacks Spot instances.
```

Reviewer 4: "EC2s are sometimes _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, especially Spot instances" -> "Launching an EC2 instance sometimes fails with _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, especially for Spot instances"

Reviewer 4: "where we lack Spot instances"
And the suggested "where AWS lacks Spot instances"

Not sure this means what you hope. I'd say, more prudent formulation, "where it seems there are not many Spot instances available"

Author: Added all your suggestions, thanks :+1:

> ![InsufficientInstanceCapacity](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-10-22-13-33-22.png)

Reviewer 4: For SEO purposes, you should use more descriptive file names

Author: done that :+1:

> Expander priority is the more resilient way we chose to have automatic fallback from Spot to on-demand when there’s no Spot left.

Reviewer 3: chose/found ?

Reviewer 4: "is the more resilient way we chose to have" sounds heavy, this "we chose to have".
Would it be possible to simplify this? Maybe "… we have… " ?

Author: Hummmm simplified to -> `Expander priority allows us to have resilience through an automatic fall back to on-demand when there is no more Spot.`
Thanks :+1:

> We have already faced, multiple times, a fallback to on-demand instances, even with a dozen different instance types. _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ errors are not a myth. Even on-demand instances can be in _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, which we may never face with expander priority, 10+ Spot instance types, 10+ on-demand instance types and low _--max-node-provision-time_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have already faced, multiple times, a fallback to on-demand instances even with a dozen different instance types. _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ errors are not a myth. Even on-demand instances can be in _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, which we may never face with expander priority, 10+ Spot instance types, 10+ on-demand instance types and low _--max-node-provision-time_.
```

Author: :+1:

> We have already faced, multiple times, a fallback to on-demand instances, even with a dozen different instance types. _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ errors are not a myth. Even on-demand instances can be in _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_, which we may never face with expander priority, 10+ Spot instance types, 10+ on-demand instance types and low _--max-node-provision-time_.

Reviewer 3: > which we may never face

hope to never[..] ?

Reviewer 4: Do you think it's interesting to mention we didn't face any problem with spot capacity for more than a year, which is why we didn't prioritize setting up on-demand fallback -- and waited until we noticed these errors?

(= it's not we didn't think it would happen, it's it didn't happen for a long time and we had other things to do)

Author: I added a note in the Costs/Spot-instances/On-demand-fallback about that:
```
  We didn’t have on-demand fallback for a year and it went well.  
+ There was enough spot capacity and there was no need for fallback. Therefore, we didn't prioritize automated on-demand fallbacks.
```

Changed to `hope to never` also, as suggested ;)

### Overprovisioning

We have overprovisioning pods inside the cluster.

> The objective is to trigger a node scale-up before a legitimate pod actually needs resources. Doing so, the pod doesn’t wait minutes to be scheduled, but a few seconds. This need for speed is linked to our business and sometimes the television audience brings us many viewers very quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The objective is to trigger a node scale-up before a legitimate pod actually needs resources. Doing so, the pod doesn’t wait minutes to be scheduled, but a few seconds. This need for speed is linked to our business and sometimes the television audience bringing us many viewers very quickly.
```

This works using overprovisioning pods which request resources without doing anything (docker image: k8s.gcr.io/pause). Those pods are also using a low PriorityClass (-10), lower than our apps.

> This trick is the whole magic of this overprovisioning: we reserve space until API needs it. When we need it, we free up this space by expelling overprovisioning pods (lower priority) and the expelled pods change their state to "Unschedulable". Pods on "Unschedulable" state force the cluster-autoscaler to add nodes.

Reviewer 3: I found there's a lot of "we" here 😅.
```suggestion
This trick is the whole magic of this overprovisioning: we request space that can be reclaimed anytime and very quickly. When an app needs it, the Scheduler will free up this space by expelling overprovisioning pods (of lower priority) because the cluster doesn't have enough free space. The expelled pods then change their state to "Unschedulable" because we just filled the cluster with higher priority pods from the app. Presence of Pods in "Unschedulable" state trigger the cluster-autoscaler to add nodes.
```

Reviewer 4: The overprovisionning pods are "Unschedulable" while waiting for capacity ? Or "Pending" ?

Author: they are in `Pending` state, with reason: `unschedulable`

Author: I've change it to be more clear @pmartin : 
The expelled pods then change their state to `Pending` with the `Reason: Unschedulable` because we just filled the cluster with higher priority pods from the app. Presence of `Pending` Pods with `Unschedulable` reason trigger the cluster-autoscaler to add nodes.

We follow the efficiency of this overprovisioning with these Prometheus expressions:

* `kube_deployment_status_replicas_unavailable`: we know which pods are waiting to be scheduled,
* `sum(kube_node_status_condition{condition="Ready",status="false"})`: we know if there are UnReady nodes, like when nodes are scaling-up and new nodes don’t have their daemonsets Ready.

> Because we have some nice pikes on our applications, we are using the ladder mode of the overprovisioning. That ensures that we always have a minimum amount of overprovisioning running in the cluster, so we’re able to handle huge loads at any time. Also, we ensure that we don’t waste too much resources when heavily loaded, so we don’t reserve 200 nodes in a cluster of 1000 nodes for example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because we have some nice spikes on our applications, we are using the ladder mode of the overprovisioning. That ensures that we always have a minimum amount of overprovisioning running in the cluster, so we’re able to handle huge loads at any time. Also, we ensure that we don’t waste too much resources when heavily loaded, so we don’t reserve 200 nodes in a cluster of 1000 nodes for example.
```

Author: I've `sed` all _pikes_ to _peaks_ already :p (but nice review, thanks :+1: )

The configmap looks like:

```yaml
data:
  ladder: '{"coresToReplicas":[[16,4],[100,10],[200,20]]}'
```

> We chose to have big overprovisioning pods, bigger than any other pod in the cluster, to ensure that expelling one of the overprovisioning pods is enough to schedule any Pending pod.

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure it "ensures" this.
If we are unlucky, Kubernetes might shcedule several small pods where a big overprovisionning one was previously running, and the "big application" would not have enough room anywhere. No?
I would say doing this (big overprovisioning pods) helps, but doesn't ensure…

Author: both are different behaviors.
Here, talking about overprovisioning, we ensure we free up enough space to start any application pod when needed.
After that, the scheduler does its _thing_ to start pods having the same PriorityClass.
If we need to start more application pods than available resources, the overprovisioning pods size doesn't matter : it's the number of overprovisioned resources that should be increased, meaning, overprovisioning pods number. Not the size of a single overprovisioning pod.

## PriorityClass

We sacrifice some applications when it's crap.

The overprovisioning magic is based on PriorityClass objects.  
We’re using the same logic for our other applications, using PriorityClass.  
We have 3 of them which concern applications:

* low -5
* default 0
* high 5

Critical applications are using the “high” PriorityClass.  
Most applications are using the “default” one, so they don’t even have to explicitly use it.  

> Workers doing asynchronous tasks can be cut off for several tens of minutes without any business impact. These are the ones with the “low” PriorityClass we sacrifice when needed.

Reviewer 4: "several tens of minutes" > we said "3-5 minutes" to product owners and they are OK for that. Several tens of minutes is *too long*.

Here is an example, during a heavy load :
![A lot of unavailable pods](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-11-17-18-17-24.png)
Hundreds of unavailable pods for 10 minutes.

If we filter out _“low”_ PriorityClass pods in the graph above, there’s only one application having unavailable pods:
![Not so many high priority unavailable pods](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-11-17-18-18-56.png)
New pods for this application stayed in the Unavailable state for 15 seconds.

### Low HPA targets

Kubernetes takes time to scale-up pods.

Without overprovisioning, we’ve measured that we wait up to 4 minutes when there’s no available node where pods can be scheduled.
Then, with overprovisioning, we mostly wait for 45seconds, between the moment the HorizontalPodAutoscaler changes the Replicas of a Deployment and for those pods to be ready and receive traffic.

> We can’t wait so long during our peaks , so we generally define HPA targets at 60%, 70% or 80% of the CPU Request. That gives us time to handle the load while new pods are being scheduled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can’t wait so long during our peaks, so we generally define HPA targets at 60%, 70% or 80% of requests. That gives us more time to handle the load while new pods are being scheduled.
```

We don't scale on only CPU ;-)

Author: :+1:

On the following graphs, we can see two nice peaks at 20h52 and 21h02:
![two nice peaks](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-10-08-15-06-25_1.png)
Above, in green, the number of consumed CPUs for one specific application: +55% in one minute.

Below, in blue, new pods are created in response to the peak.
![pods created in response to the peak](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-10-08-15-06-38_1.png)

This is obviously not a good way of managing resources, as we waste them as soon as the load balances.
![](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-10-08-15-57-43.png)

This waste effect is amplified with the load: the more pods we have, the more we waste.

We don’t have a viable solution to solve this.  

> We’re thinking about reducing scale-up duration, so we won’t need those spare resources while adding new pods. This is a challenge as the scaling mechanism is composed of several tools and changing only one of them can have catastrophic behavior on the cluster stability. This huge subject will need its own dedicated blogpost...

Reviewer 3: > We’re thinking about reducing scale-up duration, so we won’t need those spare resources while adding new pods.

what duration ? how is it going to solve the amplified 40% waste thing ?

Reviewer 4: Couldn't the new "per HPA" config parameters that landed in Kubernetes 1.18 help?

### Long downscale durations

> Recently, we have increased the downscale durations from 5 to 30minutes.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Recently, we have increased the HPA's downscale durations from 5 to 30minutes.  
```

Reviewer 4: "30minutes" -> "30 minutes"

Author: both added, :+1:

It’s done through Kops spec:
```yaml
  kubeControllerManager:
    horizontalPodAutoscalerDownscaleStabilization: 30m0s
```

When an application fails, its traffic decreases. When front A fails, traffic on backend B decreases too. When front A comes back, both A and B will have a big peak load.

> The default five minutes delay for scaling down pods is too short for us. Increasing this delay makes the return to life of front A transparent on the number of pods of the whole platform, at least for the first 30 minutes of shutdown.

Reviewer 3: > is too short for us.

mention the 4 minutes node scale-up again ?

We’ve seen blog posts where people turn off autoscaling for those very situations.
Failure is not an extreme case. Failure is expected. Autoscaling strategies must adapt to it.

You can see that one waits 30 minutes after an upscale, before downscaling:
![30mns of stabilization after a scale-up](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-12-04-15-32-46-2.png)

[Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/#support-for-cooldown-delay) specifies that: “this duration specifies how long the autoscaler has to wait before another downscale operation can be performed after the current one has completed.”

> We can observe on the graph above that it’s rather : “this duration specifies how long the autoscaler has to wait to perform a downscale after the last upscale”.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can observe on the graph above that it’s rather: “this duration specifies how long the autoscaler has to wait to perform a downscale after the last upscale”.
```

## Observability

### Metrics

> We scrap metrics via Prometheus.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We scrape application and system metrics via Prometheus.
```

Author: :+1:

> We’re using Victoria Metrics as long term storage. We found it really easy to deploy and it needs really few time to administer on a daily basis, unlike Prometheus.

Reviewer 3: it's not even daily :)

Details:

> * Prometheus scraps metrics of pods having : 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Prometheus scrapes metrics of pods having : 
```

Reviewer 4: in English, there is no space before high punctuation marks

    ```yaml
      annotations:
        prometheus.io/path: /metrics
        prometheus.io/port: "8080"
        prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
    ```

> * Then, inside prometheus jsonnet files, we define a remoteWrite pointing to VictoriaMetrics:

Reviewer 3: neither jsonnet or prometheus-operator have been introduced, so maybe it is easier to speak of the resulting config ?

```
remote_write:
- url: http://victoria-metrics-cluster-vminsert.monitoring.svc.cluster.local.:8480/insert/001/prometheus
  remote_timeout: 30s
  write_relabel_configs:
  - separator: ;
    regex: prometheus_replica
    replacement: $1
    action: labeldrop
  queue_config:
    capacity: 50000
    max_shards: 30
    min_shards: 1
    max_samples_per_send: 10000
    batch_send_deadline: 5s
    min_backoff: 30ms
    max_backoff: 100ms
```

Reviewer 3: the renderer does not like code blocks in bullet lists
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/304101/101764284-2f903f80-3ae0-11eb-8646-e1f2b509211c.png)

    ```yaml
          prometheus+: {
            spec+: {
              remoteWrite: [
                {
                  url: 'http://victoria-metrics-cluster-vminsert.monitoring.svc.cluster.local.:8480/insert/001/prometheus',
                  queueConfig: {
                    capacity: 50000,
                    maxSamplesPerSend: 10000,
                    maxShards: 30,
                  },
                  writeRelabelConfigs: [
                    {
                      action: 'labeldrop',
                      regex: 'prometheus_replica',
                    },
                  ],
    …
    ```

We have 2 Prometheus pods per cluster, each on separate nodes.

> Each Prometheus scraps all metrics in the cluster, for resilience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each Prometheus scrapes all metrics in the cluster, for resilience.
```

> They have a really low retention (few hours) and are deployed on Spot instances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
They have a really low retention (few hours, because of the WAL replay issue) and are deployed on Spot instances.
```

Reviewer 4: I think I remenber you said those were on on-demand instances, before.
Maybe add a few words to clarify they are back on spot instances now?

We have 2 Victoria Metrics pods per cluster (cluster version), each on separate nodes, separated of Prometheus pods through a _podAntiAffinity_
```yaml
  affinity:
    podAntiAffinity:
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      - weight: 100
        podAffinityTerm:
          labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: app
              operator: In
              values:
              - prometheus
          topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
```

Each Victoria Metrics pod receives all metrics in duplicate, from the two prometheus pods.
We use the command-line flag _“dedup.minScrapeInterval: 15s”_ to deduplicate metrics.

> We’re thinking about totally removing Prometheus from the mix, using only Victoria Metrics Agent to scrap metrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We’re thinking about totally removing Prometheus from the mix, using only Victoria Metrics Agent to scrape metrics.
```

### Logs

We collect stderr and stdout of all our containers.

> We use fluentd for that, as a DaemonSet, which uses the node’s /var/log/containers directory.

Reviewer 4: Hasn't that been removed like… yesterday? :-D

Author: in staging only not already deployed on all our clusters or already usable :p

We use Grafana Loki as an interface to filter those logs.

> Our developers catch most of their logs and send them directly to Kibana. Fluentd and Loki are used only for uncatched errors and have little traffic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our developers catch most of their logs and send them directly to Elasticsearch. Fluentd and Loki are used only for uncatched errors and have little traffic.
```

Reviewer 4: I'd add Fluendt/Loki is used for most "system" stuff that's not been developed to *push* logs to our existing stack.

Fluentd uses around 200MB of memory per node and so we look at replacing it by promtail which uses only 40MB in our case.

![Grafana Loki](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-12-02-12-22-54.png)
We’re happy with Loki, because we have few logs to parse. We’ve tested to get our Ingress Controller access logs sent to Loki and it was a nightmare. Too many entries to parse.

> There’s a default limit of 1000 log entries, which we raised but then, Grafana became very slow. Very very slow. 3000 log entries is the best fit for us.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There’s a default limit of 1000 log entries when querying, which we raised but then Grafana became very slow. Very very slow. 3000 log entries is the best fit for us.
```

### Alerting

We mostly use alerts defined in [the official prometheus-operator repo](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus/blob/master/manifests/prometheus-rules.yaml).

> We also add some alerts to those, E.g: an alert when our Ingress Controller can’t connect to a pod:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We also added some alerts of our own. E.g: an alert when our Ingress Controller can’t connect to a pod:
```

```yaml
    - labels:
        severity: critical
        cluster_name: "{{ $externalLabels.cluster_name }}"
      annotations:
        alertmessage: '{{ $labels.proxy }} : {{ printf "%.2f" $value }} requests in error per second'
        description: 'HAProxy pods cannot send requests to this application. Connection errors may happen when one or more pods are failing or there''s no more healthy pods : Application is crashed !!'
        summary: "{{ $externalLabels.cluster_name }} - Critical - K8S - HAProxy IC - Backend connection errors"
      alert: Critical -K8S - HAProxy IC - Backend connection errors
      expr: |
        sum(rate(haproxy_backend_connection_errors_total[1m])) by (proxy) > 0
      for: 1m
```

> Prometheus generates alerts that it sends to AlertManager.

Reviewer 3: You could maybe mention there's a single alertmanager instance, hosted outside the cluster, which is responsible for aggregating all our clusters ?

We have several possibilities then:

* Send alerts on Slack dedicated channels
* Send alerts to PagerDuty for the on-call teams

Our developers are managing their own alerts (Kubernetes CRD: PrometheusRule) that are following a different path regarding labels defined. They have their own alerts sent in their own channels.

## Costs

### Spot instances

We’re running 100% of our application workloads on Spot instances.

It was easy at first: implement [spot-termination-handler](https://github.com/kube-aws/kube-spot-termination-notice-handler) and voilà.
Indeed, but that was only the first step.

> As mentioned before, we are running 10+ instance types split on two ASGs, one for 4x, one for 8x. That’s also true for ASGs dedicated to applications.

Reviewer 3: Not sure what second step you're introducing here

#### Inter accounts reclaims

We created AWS accounts for salto.fr platform, for which we did a lot of load tests with on-demand servers.
That's when **we reclaimed our own instances** on our other accounts.

![ec2 instances per cluster](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/ec2-instances-per-cluster.gif)

Your accounts are not “linked” to each other in terms of spot reclaims.

> Launching on-demand instances on one account triggered reclaims on our other accounts in the same region.

Reviewer 4: The second sentence kinda means our accounts **are** linked, in terms of reclaims ;-)

Well, there is not "link" per-se, except the fact they are both at AWS, in the same region… Which is a hell of a relationship itself ^^

#### Ondemand fallback

> We didn’t have on-demand fallback for a year and it went well.

Reviewer 4: I wrote a comment earlier about that \o/
Maybe talk about it then?

Then, all our instance types (+10) went _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ at the same time.

> We could only work around with a manual ASG we have from our first days on Kubernetes at AWS, on which we could launch on-demand instances.

Reviewer 3: "from our first days on Kubernetes" this has not been explained, short note that it is a manual last-resort fallback ?

Now, we’re using cluster-autoscaler with the expander: Priority to automatically fallback on lower priority ASGs (see above Scalability/Cluster-autoscaler).

> It takes us around 10mn to start a node when all our instances are _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_.

Reviewer 3: to start an _on-demand_ node ?

> There are other mechanisms that directly detect _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ on an ASG, so we don’t have to wait 5mn before moving on to the next one. We’re thinking about implementing them, but they’re not really compatible with cluster-autoscaler right now.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are other mechanisms that directly detect _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_ on an ASG, so we wouldn't have to wait 5mn before moving on to the next one. We’re thinking about implementing them, but they’re not really compatible with cluster-autoscaler right now.
```

> As of today, we have two ASGs per application group, as Spot, and also two ASGs as on-demand automatic fallback.

Reviewer 4: It's not clear in my mind (maybe you've explained that, but I'm getting confused after 500+ lines): I remember something about cluster-autoscaler needed one ASG for each instance size (both for CPU and RAM).
How did you solve that? Do we use fewer instance types? Or have you decide to ignore what cluster-autoscaler's doc recommends?

#### Draino and node-problem-detector

> The problem came when downscaling : cluster-autoscaler removes the least used node, whether it’s a Spot or an on-demand instance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The problem came when downscaling : cluster-autoscaler removes the least used node, no matter if it’s a Spot or an on-demand instance.
```

> We found ourselves with a lot of on-demand nodes after load peaks and they stayed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We found ourselves with a lot of on-demand nodes after load peaks and they stayed on. And they cost a lot more than Spot instances
```

Just to clarify why this is a problem.

> We were already using node-problem-detector, so we added draino, to detect if an instance is an on-demand and try to remove it when it’s so. Draino waits for 2h after the node is launched before trying to remove it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We were already using node-problem-detector, so we added draino, to detect if an instance is on-demand and try to remove it when it is. Draino waits for 2h after the node is launched before trying to remove it.
```

Since then, we use on-demand only when there’s no Spot left and only for a few hours.

We can see on this graph, that we added automated on-demand fallback and we never stopped having on-demand instances, until we added draino:
![nodes per lifecycle](/images/posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/Screenshot-from-2020-12-09-08-32-43.png)

#### Spot Tips

> * You need to be in an “old” AWS region to have a large number of Spot available. I.E: Consider eu-west-1 instead of eu-west-3,

Reviewer 3: but consider added latencies :)

Reviewer 4: "I.E." should have a period after each letter, I believe

> * Use the maximum number of instance types possible. A dozen is barely enough,

Reviewer 3: i.e. use all instance family letters regardless of what they're optimised for (compute, memory)

Reviewer 4: A word about CapacityOptimized?
But when using CapacityOptimized, you might find yourself with very costly instances (like i3) if you configured too many instances types…

> * Do not use Spot on a single AZ,

Reviewer 4: This advice is not limited to spot ;-)

* Prepare yourself to large reclaims, dozens at a time,
* Configure and test your on-demand fallback

### Kube-downscaler

[Open-source project](https://codeberg.org/hjacobs/kube-downscaler) from Zalando which allows us to scale down Kubernetes deployments after work hours.

> We use it on our staging clusters. We save 12 hours a day of EC2 instances.

Reviewer 3: times X client clusters (!)

Reviewer 4: We also use it during week-ends.
=> We're at more than 12 hours a day: we are at 60% ;-)

### HAProxy Ingress Controller

> The whole traffic of a cluster goes through a single ALB.

Reviewer 3: Since we're also doing some history, is it relevant to talk about the Service Type=LoadBalancer and ELB costs that led to this solution ?

Reviewer 4: I'd say it's not relevant, this post is long enough :-D

> We load-balance traffic to the correct pod through HAProxy, who uses Ingress rules to update its configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We load-balance traffic to the correct pod through HAProxy, which uses Ingress rules to update its configuration.
```

We explained the way HAProxy Ingress controller lives inside the cluster during a [talk at the HAProxy Conf in 2019](https://www.haproxy.com/user-spotlight-series/rtls-journey-to-kubernetes-with-haproxy/).

> Reducing the number of managed load balancers at AWS isn’t the only benefit of HAProxy : we have tons of metrics in a single Grafana dashboard. Requests number, errors, retries, response times, connect times, bad health checks, etc.

Reviewer 3: and less cloud-vendor specific (though it's not really the point) config on app's charts (certificates ARNs comes to mind)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Reducing the number of managed load balancers at AWS isn’t the only benefit of HAProxy: we have tons of metrics in a single Grafana dashboard. Requests number, errors, retries, response times, connect times, bad health checks, etc.
```

> ---

Reviewer 4: I feel like there should be a short conclusion? The ending is a bit abrupt, here?

Author: I thought about it, and the whole article does not "demonstrate" anything, but it is rather independent, no less interesting sections, divided by theme.
I don't know what conclusion I can really bring to all this, but it's complicated, much more complicated than what the very many introductory articles show.

Author: I've tried to add a little one.
But I'm so tired I may rewrite it entirely tomorrow :/

> _Thanks to all the reviewers, for their good advices and their time ❤️ _

Reviewer 4: "advice" is uncountable I believe, so no plural

Author: :+1:

---
layout: post
title: "Three years running Kubernetes on production at Bedrock"
description: "Running all our workloads on Kubernetes is not that simple. We've learned a lot and are still learning, but we can already share what we're doing"
author:
  name: Vincent Gallissot
  avatar:
  email:
  twitter: vgallissot
  facebook:
  github:
category:
tags: [Infrastructure, Cloud, Kubernetes, Kops, AWS, HAProxy]
image:
  feature: posts/2020-12-08-three-years-running-kubernetes/ihor-dvoretskyi-UGKfiS5CcZI-unsplash.jpg
  credit: Ihor Dvoretskyi
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/photos/UGKfiS5CcZI
comments: true
language: en
---

We migrated our first application to a Kubernetes cluster at AWS in 2018.
Three years later, we manage a dozen clusters, to which we have added a lot of tools and we have a much better grasp of certain subtleties.
Each cluster reaches, depending on the load, hundreds of nodes and thousands of pods.

> ## Table of Content

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Table of Contents
```

* Base
    * Kops and templates
    * Tools we use
    * Keep tools up to date on all clusters
* Resiliency
    * DNS
    * Lot of ASGs
    * edicated ASGs by app
    * QOS Guaranteed Daemonsets
* Scalability
    * Cluster Autoscaler
        *  Expander Priority
    * Overprovisioning
    * PriorityClass
    * Low HPA targets
    * Long downscale durations
* Observability
    * Metrics
    * Logs
    * Alerting
* Costs
    * Spot instances
        * Inter accounts reclaims
        * Ondemand fallback
        * Draino and node-problem-detector
        * Spot Tips
    * Kube-downscaler
    * HAProxy Ingress Controller

## Base

### Kops and templates

EKS didn’t exist when we started to work on Kubernetes on AWS. So we chose to use Kops which, by the way, works very well.
Kops is responsible for creating, updating and deleting our clusters, but also associating resources on our AWS accounts: DNS zone + entries, AutoScalingGroups, SecurityGroups, etc.

> Our rolling-updates and rolling-upgrades are 100% handled by kops which never failed us.

Reviewer 2: Even when developer closed his laptop, does metting and back. Rolling update resume the rolling update

Author: Yeah I wont mention that :sweat_smile:

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that it resume the rolling update if we have a network issue for few minutes. It's very robust :muscle:

Because we have several clusters, we chose to use `kops toolbox template` feature instead of having a single YAML file per cluster. That allows us to have mutualized resources definitions, like AutoScalingGroups, DNS options or namespaces list, inside common files and a dedicated template file per cluster, referencing mutualized configs through variables.

For example, the EC2 instance types will be defined as snippets:

± cat snippets/spot_4x_32Gb_machine_type.yaml:
- c5.4xlarge
- c5d.4xlarge
- c5n.4xlarge

And used inside a generic template file:
± cat templates/3_spot-nodes.yaml.tpl
…
  mixedInstancesPolicy:
    instances:
    {{ if eq $index "4x_32Gb" }}
    {{ include "spot_4x_32Gb_machine_type.yaml" . | indent 4 }}
    {{ end }}
…

Finally, if the cluster requires an ASG with instances size 4x with 32GB RAM on Spot instances:
± cat vars/prod-customer.k8s.foo.bar.yaml
…
spot_nodes:
  4x_32Gb:
    az:
      - eu-west-3a
      - eu-west-3b
      - eu-west-3c
    min: 1
    max: 100

> A bash script makes the glue between all this, generating manifests files, creating/updating clusters and checking everything is operating normally.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A bash script makes the glue between all this, generating manifest files, creating/updating clusters and checking everything is operating normally.
```

Author: :+1: fixed

All of the above lives as files in a git repository, ensuring we’re doing only Infrastructure as Code.

We never make any Infrastructure modification outside of code.

### Tools we use

> We add some tools to a raw Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We added some tools to a raw Kubernetes cluster:
```

Author: Yeah it would :sweat_smile:

As of today:

* We are using a local DNS cache on each worker node, with dnsmasq,
* We use Fully Qualified Domain Names as much as possible,
* We’ve defined dnsConfig preferences for all our applications,
* We use CoreDNS with autoscaling,
* We forbid as much as possible musl/Alpine

Example of a dns configuration in prod:

```yml
  dnsConfig:
    options:
    - name: use-vc
    - name: single-request
    - name: single-request-reopen
    - name: ndots
      value: "1"
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
```

`dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst` makes sure we’re using the node’s loop interface, so pods will send their DNS requests to dnsmasq installed locally on each node.
Dnsmasq forwards DNS queries to CoreDNS for certain domains and to the VPC’s DNS server for the rest.

> ### Lot of ASGs

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Lots of ASGs
```

> We had a dozen ASGs per cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We had dozen ASGs per cluster.
```

Author: it would change the meaning of the sentence and that's not what I want to do

This is both for resiliency and because we use Spot instances.
With spot instance reclaims, we needed to have a lot of instance types and family types: m5.4xlarge, c5.4xlarge, m5n.8xlarge, etc.
This is an autoscaler recommendation to split ASGs so that [each ASG has the same amount of RAM and number of CPU cores](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/master/cluster-autoscaler/cloudprovider/aws/README.md#using-mixed-instances-policies-and-spot-instances) when using mixed instances policies.
As a result, we had ASGs like:

* spot_4x_32Gb
* spot_4x_64Gb
* spot_4x_128Gb

> **Lot of ASGs doesn’t work well**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Lots of ASGs don’t work well**
```
Lots or Many ASGs?

> AZ rebalancing doesn’t work anymore when using more than one ASG. It becomes totally unpredictable and uncontrollable. It is even a total nightmare with a dozen ASGs.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
AZ rebalancing doesn’t work anymore when using more than one ASG. It becomes totally unpredictable and uncontrollable. It is even a total nightmare with dozen ASGs.
```

Author: it would change the meaning of the sentence and that's not what I want to do

The blue NAT gateway is way more used than the two others between 19h00 and 22h00. The green NAT gateway is used half as much as the other two during peak usage times.

Kubernetes’s **cluster-autoscaler** isn’t really compatible with many ASGs. We’ll cover how it works later in this post (Scalability/ExpanderPriority), but keep in mind that you shouldn’t have more than 4 ASGs per application group. This is due to the failover mechanism of cluster-autoscaler that doesn’t detect ASGs errors like _InsufficientInstanceCapacity_.

We’ve rolled-back on the ASG number. We now have a maximum of 4 ASGs per application group (see next section: Resiliency/DedicatedASGs), with 2 being Spot and 2 on-demand fallbacks.

### Dedicated ASGs by app

We started to dedicate ASGs for some applications when Prometheus was eating all the memory of a node, ending up in OOM errors. Because Prometheus replays its WAL at startup and consumes a lot of memory doing so, adding a Limit over the memory was of no use. It was OOMKill during the WAL process, restarted, OOMKilled again, etc. . Therefore, we isolated Prometheus on on-demand nodes having a lot of memory so it could use up all of it.

> Then, one of our main API experienced a huge load, 60% IDLE CPU to 0%, in a few seconds. Because of the violence of such a peak, active pods started to consume all CPU available on nodes, depriving other pods. Getting rid of CPU Limits is [a recommendation](https://erickhun.com/posts/kubernetes-faster-services-no-cpu-limits/) that comes with drawbacks that we measured and chose to ensure performance. As a result, the entire cluster went down, lacking for available CPU.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Then, one of our main API experienced a huge load, 60% IDLE CPU to 0% in a few seconds. Because of the violence of such a peak, active pods started to consume all CPU available on nodes, depriving other pods. Getting rid of CPU Limits is [a recommendation](https://erickhun.com/posts/kubernetes-faster-services-no-cpu-limits/) that comes with drawbacks that we measured and chose to ensure performance. As a result, the entire cluster went down, lacking for available CPU.
```

Author: :+1:

Author: Noisy enighbours existed on virtual machines already, we are just reinventing the wheel by discovering it with containers :/ 
And yeah, with Kubernetes, if we mutualize resources, we enforce this behavior. There are tools, like limits to prevent this and this is also what the article you shared says : disable cpu limits cause you get throttled, but then you loose protection when heavy load comes. So you bring back limits.

Thanks for that, I'm adding it to the article ;)

Author: Added it like:
[Airbnb shared the same experience](https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-performance-troublespots-airbnbs-take/): they removed CPU limits because of throttling, but the _noisy neighbors_ forced them to re-introduce `limits`.

> We tried to isolate this API on its own nodes, as such peaks can repeat in the future, because it’s uncacheable and userfacing. We added Taint on dedicated nodes and Tolerations on the selected API.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We tried to isolate this API on its own nodes, as such peaks can repeat in the future, because it’s uncacheable and userfacing. We added Taints on dedicated nodes and Tolerations on the selected API.
```

Author: :+1:  Also fixed by marking those as `code`

> Since that, we had to deploy a dedicated overprovisioning on those nodes as the overprovisioning pods didn’t have this toleration. It turned out we’re also able to adapt the overprovisioning specifically for this API, which wasn’t the base idea, but it has proven to be very effective due to the API’s nature. We talk more about overprovisioning's conf a little later on.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Since that, we had to deploy dedicated overprovisioning on those nodes as the overprovisioning pods didn’t have this toleration. It turned out we’re also able to adapt the overprovisioning specifically for this API, which wasn’t the base idea, but it has proven to be very effective due to the API’s nature. We talk more about overprovisioning's conf a little later on.
```

Author: it would change the meaning of the sentence and that's not what I want to do
